Basic SSH Commands
Working on a remote server using SSH requires knowing basic SSH commands. Use the commands and options in this article to manage a 
remote host. Note that you can combine the flags to get the output you need.

Show Working Directory Path
Use the pwd command to show the file system path.

example of a working directory ssh command terminal
The output displays the location of the directory you are in.

List Files and Directories
To list the contents of a current working folder, use the ls command.

The shell will show the names of all directories, files, and links. To get more information, add one of the following flags:

-a displays hidden files and entries starting with a dot.
-l shows file details for directory contents. For example, the output includes permissions, ownership, date, etc.
-s lists the size of files, in blocks. Add -h to show the size in a humanly-readable form.
Change Directory
To navigate to a specific folder, use the cd command and a name or path of a directory.

cd Desktop/Downloads/Sample
Remember that the names are case sensitive. Use cd without a name or path to return to the user’s home directory.

Useful cd options include:

cd .. go to the directory one level higher than your current location.
cd - switch to the previous directory.
cd / go to the root directory.
Copy a File
Use the cp command to copy a file or directory. You’ll need to include the name of the file and the target location.

cp fileName /directory/path/destination
To copy file1 from Desktop to Dir1, type in:

cp file1 Dir1
To change the name of file1 while copying it to another destination, use this format:

cp file1 Dir1/Newfile1Name
This command copies file1 to Dir1 with a name you specify.

To copy a directory and its contents, use the -r flag in this format:

cp -r Directory1 NewLocation
Move a File
The mv command works in the same manner as the copy command.

For instance, to move a file to another location, type in:

mv fileName directory/path/destination
Create a File
The touch command allows you to create a new file with any extension.

In the terminal, enter the following command:

touch fileName
For example, to create a system.log file, type in:

touch system.log
Create a Directory
To create a directory, use the mkdir command. Enter a new directory name or full path in this format:

mkdir NewDirectoryName
Or:

mkdir directory/path/NewDirectoryName
Delete a File or Directory
To delete a Linux file , use rm in this format:

rm fileName
In addition, you can enter a full path:

rm /home/user/dir1/fileName
To delete a directory, add the -r flag to the rm command.

View Network Information
To view the status of all network adapters, use the ifconfig command. Moreover, when you don’t use any options with ifconfig, the
output displays only active interfaces.

Network information with ifconfig command
Clear the Terminal Screen
To clear the current working area of your bash screen, type clear in the shell. This command clears one portion of the screen and 
shifts up the previous output.

To remove the output from the terminal completely, use the reset command.

Run a Command on a Remote Server from a Local Computer
This method does not create a new shell. Instead, it runs a command and returns the user to the local prompt. You can create a file,
copy files, or run any other SSH command in this format.

To remotely execute a command from the local machine, append an instruction to the SSH command. For example, to delete a file, type in:

ssh test.server.com rm ~/Desktop/Dir1/sample4
Enter the password, and the file on the remote server will be deleted without creating a new shell.

SSH Command Line Options
The SSH tool comes with many optional parameters. The table below lists common SSH options and the corresponding descriptions.

SSH Option	Description
-1	Instructs ssh to use protocol version 1
-2	Instructs ssh to use protocol version 2.
-4	Permits only IPv4 addresses.
-6	Permits only IPv6 addresses.
-A	Enables authentication agent connection forwarding. Use this option with caution.
-a	Disables authentication agent connection forwarding.
-b bind_address	Use this option on the local host with more than one address to set the source address of the connection.
-C	Enables data compression for all files. Only to be used with slow connections.
-c cipher_spec	Use to select a cipher specification. List the values separated by a comma.
-E log_fileName	Attaches debug logs to log_file instead of standard error.
-f	Sends ssh to background, even before entering a password or passphrase.
-g	Permits remote hosts to connect to ports forwarded on a local machine.
-q	Runs ssh in quiet mode. It suppresses most error or warning messages.
-V	Displays the version of ssh tool and exits.
-v	Prints debugging messages for ssh connection. The verbose mode is useful when troubleshooting configuration issues.
-X	Use this option to enable X11 forwarding.
-x	Disable X11 forwarding.
